docs(oss): tools, agents docs for v1 alpha (#243)
langchain-ai/docs: src/oss/langchain-structured-output.mdx

## Overview

Structured output allows agents to return data in a specific, predictable format. Instead of parsing natural language responses, you get structured data in the form of JSON objects, Pydantic models, or dataclasses that your application can directly use. 

> LangChain's prebuilt ReAct agent `create_react_agent` handles structured output automatically. The user sets their desired structured output schema, and when the model generates the structured data, it's captured, validated, and returned in the `structured_response` key of the agent's state.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
LangChain's prebuilt ReAct agent `create_react_agent()` handles structured output automatically. The user sets their desired structured output schema, and when the model generates the structured data, it's captured, validated, and returned in the `'structured_response'` key of the agent's state.
```

```python
def create_react_agent(
    ...
    response_format: Union[
        ToolStrategy[StructuredResponseT],
        ProviderStrategy[StructuredResponseT],
        type[StructuredResponseT],

>     ]

Reviewer 2: Overkill w/ the generics, let's just showcase 3 options w/ examples

I love generics + they make devx much better (ideally), but overwhelming in a conceptual doc

```

<ParamField path="response_format">
Controls how the agent returns structured data:

- **`ToolStrategy[StructuredResponseT]`**: `Uses tool calling for structured output
- **`ProviderStrategy[StructuredResponseT]`**: Uses provider-native structured output
- **`type[StructuredResponseT]`**: Schema type - automatically selects best strategy based on model capabilities
- **`None`**: No structured output

When a schema type is provided directly, LangChain automatically chooses:
- `ProviderStrategy` for models supporting native structured output (OpenAI, Grok)
- `ToolStrategy` for all other models

The structured response is returned in the `structured_response` key of the agent's final state.
</ParamField>

## Provider strategy

Some model providers support structured output natively through their APIs (currently only OpenAI and Grok). This is the most reliable method when available. 

To use this strategy, configure a `ProviderStrategy`:

```python
class ProviderStrategy(Generic[SchemaT]):
    schema: type[SchemaT]

> ```

Reviewer 2: We should not include this in the docs

)

result = agent.invoke({
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Extract contact info from: John Doe, john@example.com, (555) 123-4567"}]
})

result["structured_response"]
# {'name': 'John Doe', 'email': 'john@example.com', 'phone': '(555) 123-4567'}
```

```python JSON Schema
from langchain.agents import create_react_agent

contact_info_schema = {
    "type": "object",
    "description": "Contact information for a person.",
    "properties": {
        "name": {"type": "string", "description": "The name of the person"},
        "email": {"type": "string", "description": "The email address of the person"},
        "phone": {"type": "string", "description": "The phone number of the person"}
    },
    "required": ["name", "email", "phone"]
}

agent = create_react_agent(
    model="openai:gpt-5",
    tools=tools,
    response_format=contact_info_schema  # Auto-selects ProviderStrategy
)

result = agent.invoke({
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Extract contact info from: John Doe, john@example.com, (555) 123-4567"}]
})

result["structured_response"]
# {'name': 'John Doe', 'email': 'john@example.com', 'phone': '(555) 123-4567'}
```

</CodeGroup>

> Provider-native structured output provides high reliability, strict validation, and improved performance, because the model provider enforces the schema. Use it when available.

Reviewer 2: erm perf to me implies speed, let's remove, reliability says enough

<Note>
If the provider natively supports structured output for your model choice, it is functionally equivalent to write `response_format=ProductReview` instead of `response_format=ToolStrategy(ProductReview)`. In either case, if structured output is not supported, the agent will fall back to a tool calling strategy.
</Note>

## Tool calling strategy

For models that don't support native structured output, LangChain uses tool calling to achieve the same result. This works with all models that support tool calling, which is most modern models. 

To use this strategy, configure a `ToolStrategy`:

```python
class ToolStrategy(Generic[SchemaT]):
    schema: type[SchemaT]
    tool_message_content: str | None
    handle_errors: Union[
        bool,
        str,
        type[Exception],
        tuple[type[Exception], ...],
        Callable[[Exception], str],
    ]

> ```

Reviewer 2: Link out to API docs instead

)

result = agent.invoke({
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Analyze this review: 'Great product: 5 out of 5 stars. Fast shipping, but expensive'"}]
})
result["structured_response"]
# ProductReview(rating=5, sentiment='positive', key_points=['fast shipping', 'expensive'])
```

</CodeGroup>

### Custom tool message content

The `tool_message_content` parameter allows you to customize the message that appears in the conversation history when structured output is generated:

```python
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field
from typing import Literal
from langchain.agents import create_react_agent
from langchain.agents.structured_output import ToolStrategy

class MeetingAction(BaseModel):
    """Action items extracted from a meeting transcript."""
    task: str = Field(description="The specific task to be completed")
    assignee: str = Field(description="Person responsible for the task")
    priority: Literal["low", "medium", "high"] = Field(description="Priority level")

agent = create_react_agent(
    model="openai:gpt-5",
    tools=[],
    response_format=ToolStrategy(
        schema=MeetingAction,

>         tool_message_content="Action item captured and added to meeting notes!"

Reviewer 2: Great!

    
    AIMessage(content="", tool_calls=[
        {"name": "ContactInfo", "args": {"name": "John Doe", "email": "john@email.com"}, "id": "call_3"}
    ]),
    
    ToolMessage(content="Returning structured response: {'name': 'John Doe', 'email': 'john@email.com'}", tool_call_id="call_3", name="ContactInfo")
]
```

#### Schema validation error

When structured output doesn't match the expected schema, the agent provides specific error feedback:

```python
from pydantic import BaseModel, Field
from langchain.agents import create_react_agent
from langchain.agents.structured_output import ToolStrategy

class ProductRating(BaseModel):
    rating: int = Field(description="Rating from 1-5", ge=1, le=5)
    comment: str = Field(description="Review comment")

agent = create_react_agent(
    model="openai:gpt-5",
    tools=[],
    response_format=ToolStrategy(ProductRating)  # Default: handle_errors=True
)

result = agent.invoke({
    "messages": [{"role": "user", "content": "Parse this: Amazing product, 10/10!"}]
})
```

```python

> # result["messages"]

Reviewer 2: Can we pretty print messages (for msg in result["messages"]: `msg.pretty_print())
